Okay.
Well, first of all,
welcome and thank you for
attending this session.
I don't know which is worse,
to have a panel directly before
lunch or directly after lunch,
but hopefully we can keep you awake here.
So, as Frank Casanova talked about
in his Digital Media State of
the Union presentation yesterday,
mobile video is really an exciting new
opportunity for Apple and QuickTime.
With QuickTime's support
for the creation,
delivery, and desktop playback of mobile
video standards like 3GPP and 3GPP2,
we are a leading provider of mobile
video infrastructure and technology.
And we're working with a number
of operators worldwide on both
the development and deployment
of multimedia services.
So, in today's session,
we're going to step back a
bit and take sort of a broader
view of the marketplace.
We have some experts from various
different leading companies
within the mobile universe.
And they're going to take us through sort
of their unique perspective on the market
drivers that are helping to shape this
marketplace and turn it into a reality.
So, first up, we have David Brudnicke
with AT&T Wireless.
We have Eugene Sarmiento from Ericsson.
And last but not least,
we have Gabriel Sidhoem
from France Telecom R&D.
So, in terms of the format,
they're each going to take
you through a presentation.
If we could hold questions to the end,
then we'll go through some questions.
We actually have a little
bit of demo in here as well.
So, hopefully, that'll deal with the
after lunch doldrums.
But that's basically it.
And I'll open it up to Dave.
Thanks, Benjamin.
Thanks, everybody.
Hopefully I won't bore you too much.
I wanted to spend a few minutes
and give you some background around
the evolution of data services and
the work that AT&T Wireless has
been doing in this space,
and talk about some of the
opportunities that exist for
leveraging some of the convergence
that we're seeing of capabilities.
So, you know,
all the analysts have lots of reports
around the importance of wireless data,
and while they vary on what they think,
how big the opportunity is,
I think they're all in agreement
that it is pretty substantial.
You know, this is the U.S.
forecast through 2006.
I've seen forecasts for
mobile commerce in Europe,
for example, saying that just for
mobile commerce alone,
the forecast there is $5 billion,
and this is a data revenue forecast.
So we're pretty excited.
I think there's a pretty
substantial opportunity here.
And this is important to us,
and I think it's important to
most of the other operators,
in that data is our opportunity to
reverse the revenue erosion that we've
seen happening in terms of decline
associated with the pricing of voice
minutes and services around voice.
And a good example of
this is on the voice side,
the opportunities to compete
are relatively limited.
So there's so many permutations of
voice bundles and minutes that you
could create to be competitive,
and it's always a game of catch-up.
Okay, they've got nights and weekends.
Okay, now we've got nights and weekends.
So come over to us.
So it's just a mad dash of
customers running back and forth
between different voice plans.
So back in 2001,
we formed a division within
AT&T Wireless called the
Mobile Multimedia Services Division as
a part of our investment
agreement with NTT Docomo.
And we realized early that we
wanted to make sure that we
could get ahead of the data game.
And really move the differentiator away
from being price competition around
voice to being data services that our
consumers would value and that would
provide some stickiness that would
keep the customers with AT&T Wireless.
So moving away from the value that
you'd see in how many voice minutes
you have or what plan you have to
being able to look up the latest
sports court while you're on the go,
being able to check your
email from your phone,
traveling to San Francisco,
which would be nice to know where
a good restaurant to eat is.
it is,
or even find directions to the hotel.
So we started this little M-mode data
experiment way back in the mid-90s
when we used to call it "pocket net."
And that was back when there was lots
of hype around the "wireless internet."
I think those two words together
back in the mid-90s were kind of an
oxymoron since there was really nothing
internet about seeing a five-line
black-and-white LCD display trying to
communicate what was on the internet.
Running at 9.6 or 14.4 kbps wasn't
necessarily a very compelling experience.
But it was a great opportunity for us to
get our feet wet and learn some lessons.
And some of the important things
that we picked up through this
was obviously devices matter.
You know, back then it was a big clunky
Mitsubishi or Sony Ericsson phone.
And while it was pretty
advanced in its day,
"I'm looking at the
wireless internet now,
I'm pulling out my antenna and waiting
for it to connect," was a rather
underwhelming experience unless you
were a pretty patient individual.
And also, the other thing we learned
there was content matters.
Our approach then was a walled
garden approach where we said,
"You can have unlimited access
to the wireless internet,
but it's the wireless internet that
we give you within our garden."
And back then there weren't a lot
of applications or services that
were necessarily enabled or could
be easily converted for application
and use in the wireless space.
And probably most importantly,
one of the things that we learned through
this is it's really important for us to
focus on the environment in which our
customers are going to use the services.
It's not really practical to expect that.
It's not really practical to expect
someone to pick up their phone,
wait for the connection to happen,
to try to look up a phone number
when they're competing with voice
minutes and all they have to do is
dial 411 or call somebody to get the
information that they're looking for.
So I think one of the most
important takeaways that we had,
and I think what's important for
folks to understand as they're looking
at creating more advanced services,
whether they be multimedia
services or applications,
or any application that they
think they would like to
bring into the wireless space,
is that it needs to be relevant
for the mobility of the device.
And it needs to be relevant for the
mobility scenario and environment
and be relevant for the time slice.
Because that's really
what mobility is about.
It's about I have a few seconds,
I have a time slice of availability
to be entertained or find
information or connect to
those that are important to me.
So I think that's really
what mobility is about.
It's about I have a few seconds,
I have a time slice of availability
to be entertained or find
information or connect to
those that are important to me.
So we launched M-Mode in early 2002
when we were in the process of rolling
out our GPRS network nationwide.
And at that point,
we had hundreds of content providers.
We had lots of applications,
Java applications, ringtones.
You could go to 19 different
places and get news.
And it was like walking into
Walmart and having never been there
before and just having rows and rows
of aisles of stuff to look for and
not really knowing how to find it.
So one of the things that
we did in 2003 was rebuilt a
whole new M-Mode data service.
And what was really important here
was we really were trying to focus on,
again,
the point I made earlier about it being
relevant to the mobile experience.
Through some extensive customer
interviews and research and
working with a leading design
firm here in San Francisco,
we relaunched M-Mode and we remade it,
and we relaunched it last November.
And what was really important to
us was that we had a lot of data.
And what was really important to us was
it needed to appeal to the mass market,
not to a propellerhead 35-year-old
person like me who was patient enough
and understood the complexities
of trying to buy a phone,
figure out how to launch a browser,
get all the settings correct,
and make it work.
Because our real goal here
was to drive daily usage.
We wanted this to be something that was
important and part of people's lives.
And we wanted it to be a best-in-class
service through work that we were
doing with our content partners to
make sure it was compelling content
and it was meaningful and up-to-date.
So today we have over 260 sites and
applications available through M-mode.
These range anywhere from repurposed
Internet content or sites that
have been rewritten or have a
mobile version of their content,
such as some of the new sites,
Google and others,
as well as applications for download,
primarily a lot of Java content
available for phones.
And additionally,
we even today already have some
sites that are providing streamed
content on the GPRS network.
So some of the questions
I get from a lot of people is,
well,
how does this whole M-mode thing work for
me as a developer or a content provider,
somebody who wants to create an
application and bring it to market?
We at AT&T Wireless,
and through our M-Mode platform,
we don't host content.
We don't have big servers in our
data center aggregating lots of
Java applications for people to
connect to and download and vend them.
What we do is we follow very
closely the NTT Docomo iMode model,
where M-Mode is your portal,
your connection to those
content partners and providers
within our sphere or without.
We don't prohibit our consumers
or customers from connecting
anywhere they would like to,
but for those content
providers that work with us,
they can reach into our entire
customer base without having to have
an individual billing relationship.
So it makes it really easy for our
content partners to bring an application
to market and to be able to monetize
it without having to worry about,
"I have to print a bill,
I have to figure out how to do all
these transactions with the customer,"
because we have a very flexible
mobile commerce platform that we've
put in place to try to... take that
burden off the content partner.
So I know you're all probably wondering,
"Well, this is really cool.
What does this have to do with mobile
video or multimedia or QuickTime?" Well,
bear with me and I'll get there.
Because what we are constantly doing is
we're refining our platform and looking
to deliver new applications and content.
Some of the examples of new applications
that we've recently launched are
the mobile traffic applications,
so that in over 70 cities in the country,
you can pick up your phone
and within a few days,
you can get your phone back to work.
And within two clicks,
if you subscribe to the application,
in your phone,
see the traffic conditions.
So a logical evolution of this would be,
"Well, it's really nice that I can
see the traffic conditions,
and I see that there's a backup here,
but what about that traffic cam
associated with that?" So there's a
lot of natural extensions that our
multimedia capability and devices
in the network could enable to
extend applications like that.
We see the same thing with some of
the other applications with news,
with games, with movies and movies.
So we're trying to get that back.
with movies and movie trailers.
We are continually working
with our content providers,
trying to help them understand what
capabilities we have in the devices
and in the network and our billing
platform to help them bring these
applications and services to market.
So we've seen some pretty substantial
success that we're really excited about.
In 2003, we crossed over the million
subscriber mark for M-Mode.
These are a million active users,
and we see on average $7 to $8 a
month of revenue for those users,
in addition to their voice revenue.
So if you remember back to
that previous slide I put up,
we're really seeing data revenue
reversing the decline there.
And we see advanced applications
providing us a tremendous opportunity
for both ourselves and our developers and
content partners to continue that trend.
So, I talked a little bit
yesterday in Frank's keynote,
I mentioned 2004 being
the year of convergence,
some of you may have been there
and heard me make that comment.
And some of the trends that
I see and that we see at
AT&T Wireless and with our partners is
Three key areas that are converging
in this year and in the years to come.
And some of these
enablers are already here.
So we launched our
Edge network last year.
We completed the deployment nationwide.
So Edge, if you're not familiar,
is an advancement or enhancement to GPRS.
And GPRS was the data
standard that GSM employs,
and I'll show a little
network evolution slide there.
But this allows us to provide customers
with devices that have the capability to
access data at rates up to 130 kilobits
per second with bursts up to 200.
So the networks are getting there.
New devices.
One of the big challenges to
delivering richer applications
was device capabilities.
We had, years ago,
Frank and I mentioned going to Asia and
seeing demonstrations of mobile
streaming over wireless networks.
And, you know, one of the big inhibitors
was the Internet.
And one of the big
challenges was devices.
We didn't have enough devices that had
the horsepower to stream the video.
They didn't have the big enough color
displays to actually render it in a
format that was meaningful to customers.
And then there was battery life.
You know, walking around with five
batteries in my pocket so I can,
you know,
watch 15 minutes of video wasn't
a really compelling experience.
And, of course,
new types of applications,
some of those of which I've showed
you and that we'll take advantage
of and use this capability.
But more importantly are the
tools that are needed to bring
these applications to market.
Three years ago,
a content partner of ours
would have been forced to say,
"Okay, I want to deliver rich
content to my consumers.
How am I going to do this?" Well,
I could go out and buy a real
server and pay for lots of
hardware and lots of licenses,
or should I use packet video?
But if I use either of those,
then I have to work with the device
manufacturer to make sure they're
putting the appropriate hardware
codecs and everything into them.
And there were a lot of
hodgepodge of standards.
Standards were evolving and
weren't quite there yet.
But this year,
I think we've really seen the
standards turn the corner,
and that we're actually seeing these
capabilities and standard compliant
capabilities implemented in tools.
And I think what Apple's done with
QuickTime and their tool set there
for content authoring and creation
is a perfect example of that.
It's that easy to create your content,
author it, and deliver it to the device.
So devices,
there's a whole plethora of devices.
You walk into any of our
stores or competitor's stores,
you have a wide variety
of devices to choose from.
On the consumer side,
from smartphones to camera-enabled
phones to music-capable
phones to gaming devices,
some that have been successful
and some not so successful.
I'm sure some of you have probably
been to that favorite Nokia,
non-Nokia site, sidetalking.com,
where you see lots of people
talking on their taco.
So there's definitely been some
lessons learned by both the operators
and the device manufacturers.
On the enterprise side,
we offer a pretty rich array of devices
to support our enterprise customers'
access to their corporate data,
applications,
and email in a secure manner,
both through devices as well as
PC cards and working with various OEMs
to ensure that the capabilities are
baked into the device at the factory.
The network evolution has been a
really interesting journey for us.
As I mentioned,
we launched GSM and GPRS and
completed our build-out in late 2001,
and that completed our GPRS deployment.
Last year, we did an upgrade nationwide
across all of our network,
which took us to edge,
which takes us up to 384 kilobits
per second aggregate throughput.
And again, that varies by conditions
and the device's capability.
Not every edge device is going to
be configured by the manufacturer to
take advantage of all the throughput.
But on average, the newer devices,
such as the device I'll
do a little demo on,
the Nokia 6620,
is a four-time slot edge device.
It's a Class 10 device,
for those of you who may be following
some of the wireless standards.
But what that means is I have the
ability to access data at speeds up to
about 120 to 130 kilobits per second.
That's pretty cool,
considering I'm mobile.
And for the PowerBook users
in the audience,
this is the greatest
wireless modem I ever had,
because I just turned
Bluetooth on on my laptop,
and I'm connected.
It blows dial-up away.
And now, with improvements we've
made to our network,
it's accessible just about everywhere.
We also announced that this year
we would be deploying the next
evolution on the GSM data path,
and that is our move to wideband CDMA,
or you may have heard
it referred to as UMTS.
We'll launch UMTS in
four cities this year.
We've launched it already.
It's available in Dallas.
That was our original launch
city that we were testing in.
We'll launch it in three
other cities this year.
And some of you may be familiar
with the fact that we're
being acquired by Singular.
And Singular has announced that
they will be--they're fully
committed to UMTS and will be
launching UMTS nationwide as well.
So we're really excited that
the bandwidth is increasing,
and there is a pretty robust
evolution path that takes us to HS.
That's actually misspelled.
It should be DPA, and that stands for
High-Speed Data Packet Access.
But it's just the next evolution
in the GSM/GPRS data path.
So what is this Edge thing?
I talked a little bit about it,
but what's great about
Edge is we rolled out Edge,
and all we had to do was a
software upgrade to our network.
We didn't have to go out
and replace radios and roll
trucks and have forklifts.
And Edge is essentially just a
new algorithm that takes what was
previously required three data time
slots in the GPRS world and condenses
that into one time slot in Edge,
which is really important to
us because not only it frees
up capacity on the data side,
it frees up capacity on the voice side,
so it's a big efficiency
improvement for us.
So what does this mean to services,
and what does this mean to those
folks who want to create multimedia
applications and deliver those?
Well, you can see the evolution here.
I talked about GPRS.
We got pretty excited when GPRS came out,
but the reality is, on average,
a GPRS device supports around
30 kilobits per second,
which means you probably want
to do a typical video encode at
around 24 kilobits per second.
And streaming is probably something a
lot of people would avoid under GPRS,
unless you were doing some
lower-quality AM quality audio streams.
But it was good for crude
video or more of a slideshow or
download and playback scenario.
With Edge,
we've seen significant improvement,
and Edge is substantially better
in that we get really good
quality streaming for video.
For audio, you can have a pretty
decent experience with AAC,
the 32K or 64K encodes
on AAC work really well.
Streamed over Edge,
pretty decent FM quality.
And the big benefit we get is
the latency is much improved.
That was one of the biggest complaints
we got from a lot of folks was,
"That's great, you always have an
always-on GPRS connection,
but the latency is really
painful." Edge is a substantial
improvement in latency,
and that's really important
when it comes to applications.
And then, moving to UMTS,
we get really excellent
quality streaming,
even lower latency,
and a good amount of performance.
And the typical video encode around
128 kilobits per second provides
a pretty compelling experience.
So we're really excited
about the capabilities that
have converged this year,
and we're excited about our partnership
with Apple and the work that Apple is
doing to enable folks like yourselves
to create content and deliver this
content without having to figure out,
"Am I delivering this to the desktop?
How do I encode this?
What are all these standards?"
That's the beauty of
QuickTime and the authoring tool.
And the authoring tool is, I just select,
I want to export it,
and I don't have to be the rocket
scientist to figure this out.
And it really works.
Recently, a little side story here,
Frank, I'm going to make fun of you.
Not really.
No, I won't make any comments
about your shirt or anything.
Frank and Elisa were
recently up at our offices.
We were in a meeting,
and I was introducing
Frank and telling him that,
you know,
this Apple job is just a distraction
because Frank's really a musician.
And he mentioned his website to us.
Well,
while we were sitting in the meeting,
I browsed out to Frank's website,
downloaded one of his video
clips of him jamming out with
some famous guitar players,
put it into QuickTime,
exported it to 3GP, and in the meeting,
I streamed it over to my phone and
showed everybody in the meeting.
That's how easy it is,
and that's how easy Apple's made it.
So with that, I'd like to conclude
with just a quick demo.
So working with Benjamin,
what we did is we took some
movie trailers and we encoded
them and put them up on their
Apple QuickTime streaming server.
What I've done is I've got
a session queued up here.
I'm going to connect to the server,
and we'll actually stream the Alien vs.
Predator movie trailer
over the Edge network.
And if the demo gods cooperate with me,
we'll actually see it working.
So let's see.
Get the phone over here.
This is a two-minute clip,
and I could let it stream and stream,
and I would get about a meg and a half
worth of data moved through the network.
So as an operator,
I get pretty excited about customers
moving a meg and a half of data.
Obviously,
we have data plans and arrangements
available to our consumers that
make that affordable to them,
so that's important as well.
And I don't know necessarily
that someone wants to watch the
entire two-minute video clip,
but this is a great example of how
easy it was to take very rich content
on the desktop and convert it and
deliver it to the mobile device.
So with that, thanks.
Thanks, Benjamin.
I think we'll note that was
actually streaming off of one of
our XSERV G5s back at Apple using
QuickTime streaming server,
and the content was created
using Final Cut and QuickTime.
That client happened to be Packet Video,
but we work with a
number of 3GPP compliant
These devices come with
the real player on them,
which supports 3GP,
but it doesn't prevent anybody
from downloading other players.
That's the beauty of having a device
with an open operating system,
and the pack video player
works really well and is
available across other devices.
So as an operator,
we don't have bias toward
one player or the other.
Our bias is toward standards,
and our bias is toward
great customer experience.
Thank you, David.
Okay, so coming up next,
from the infrastructure perspective,
we have Eugene Sarmiento from Ericsson.
He's going to talk to you a
little bit about some of the
Some of the other components
that are involved in delivering
rich media to a handset,
we play a very specific role in that
we are the streaming engine that
delivers content to the handset,
but there's a whole bunch of other
stuff that has to happen before that,
like billing and authentication.
And that's really where
Ericsson plays a role,
and we've been working together to
ensure that both of our standards-based
solutions work quite closely together.
Thank you, Benjamin.
Can I borrow this?
Sure, why not?
So, good afternoon, everybody.
First of all,
I'd like to thank Apple for giving
Ericsson this opportunity to address
the developer community that you
have and to give our insights on
the convergence of mobile and media.
We've seen already a lot of
things that I might be repeating,
but I'll try to add the world view to
this in terms of what we see in mobile
media from the holistic perspective.
To start off,
my name again is Eugene Sarmiento.
I'm a Product Marketing Manager for
Ericsson.
I've been working with the streaming
and download solution from Ericsson
for the past two and a half years,
working with the global operators,
trying to push them.
towards this mobile
and media convergence.
Now,
the slides I'm about to present to you,
We'll mainly cover three main areas.
First of all, what opportunities we see
in the mobile media space,
what's Ericsson's role in this space,
and finally,
what are the key success factors that
will basically take what we have now
into a full-blown service earning
millions or billions of dollars.
So,
the first question I'd like to address,
of course, is why will mobile,
when combined with media, be successful?
So, what's so interesting about the
mobile network that will allow for
better services of media content?
Well, as a start-off,
what I've put on as a slide is the
huge number of mobile subscribers
that we address today with 2G,
2.5G, and 3G networks.
As you can see, in 2004,
we have roughly 1.3 billion
subscribers that are covered
with mobile phone technology.
Now, this 1.3 billion subscribers are
potential subscribers for media content,
and we see another billion of growth
within the next four to five years.
So, that's the amount of potential
revenue or potential customers that
the mobile media industry will have.
We see a lot of growth in
areas such as Asia Pacific,
specifically talking about, let's say,
China and India.
We see in China alone a growth of
5 million subscribers per month,
right?
And in India, we have roughly 2 to 3
million subscribers per month.
And we see the same growth
in Southeast Asian countries
such as Bangladesh,
Pakistan, Indonesia, and the Philippines,
all having a total, let's say,
a total population of 100 million each.
And at this point in time,
they only have penetrations of 14%. So,
there's still a lot of growth out there,
and what you can see is the
penetration of mobile phones is much,
much more than what there
is for the web today.
It's much more than the TVs.
And what you can see also with the
number of phones that are coming out,
there's more picture messaging capability
that are coming out than there are
digital cameras that are coming out.
So,
we see all these factors as key points
in making mobile media successful.
Now, the first thing that I'd
like to address or ask is,
what's so different?
What's so different about
mobile technologies?
Well,
I can basically sum it up in two things.
The first thing is that
it's very personal.
A mobile phone is the only
device that you have where you
keep very personal information.
If any of you have mobile
phones with picture capability,
a big probability is that you have
your family's picture inside it.
You have credit card information or
password information as I have it.
And basically,
this is the only device that
you keep right up to your face.
No other device has that capability.
And that would mean that you could
push content to the mobile phone.
Anytime, anywhere.
And, you know,
we always emphasize in Ericsson,
mobility, mobility, mobility.
Because that's actually the
key for mobile technologies.
So, it's the personalization
factor of mobile phones.
The second part to that is that
users are willing to pay for
content on the mobile phone.
This is something that's
very different from internet.
Or web technologies.
Because it's very difficult to have
the user perception that the internet
is a secure way to pay for content.
Although it's taking
off with Apple's iTunes.
It's taking off with real networks.
And a lot of music downloads
we see from the web.
It's still easier for a user with a
mobile phone to pay for that content.
So, we see that as a big potential.
Or a big reason why mobile
networks are so different.
Just to give you a small example.
I saw American Idol at home.
Because my mom comes from, well,
my brother comes from San Francisco.
And, you know, there's two,
I come from the Philippines as well.
And there's two contestants there
that have Philippine background.
And so, when my mom visited me in Sweden,
first thing she said was, "Oh,
do you know about
American Idol?" And I was like,
"What's that?" And so,
she starts streaming, you know,
using our wireless LAN at home.
She starts streaming, showing me, "Oh,
these are the singers." Now,
I think she would have done
the same thing if she had
that capability on her phone.
You know?
If I was on the train going,
I think it was four months ago.
I was going to an office in Atlanta.
And there was this guy who
was just talking to me about
Michael Jackson's trial.
And then his mother called.
And she said, "Oh,
have you seen the latest information
about Michael Jackson and what's
happening there?" If she could
have sent him a link or a telephone
number to call to show her that clip,
I think she would have, I mean,
he would have, you know,
shown me that clip and said, "Hey,
here's what's happening
with Michael Jackson." So,
there's a lot of potential
for mobile media.
And 3GPP has seen this potential,
has standardized codecs as well as
protocols to make sure that streaming
is available on mobile networks.
I think they're forecasting
roughly $6 billion worth of
revenue in five years from now.
So, that's 2008.
So, that's the first reason why we
think mobile media is successful.
But there's growth drivers.
And our colleague from AT&T has already
mentioned that one of the growth drivers
is the technologies that we have.
Right?
And what technologies that we have today
in most of the world is 2G technology.
Where you have up to 28 kbps.
Right?
If you've monitored how Vodafone has
addressed very small numbers of users,
The first thing I want to say is that
mobile media content on the 2G space,
since there's very limited bandwidth,
they don't push or they don't provide
streaming applications as their
thrust or as their core services.
They're looking at download services
because then you would have the quality
of the video even though the bit rates
are quite low on these 2G networks.
But we've seen a lot of the
operators in 2003 move into Edge,
which have 64 to 144 kbps capabilities.
One of them is AT&T,
and there's roughly 76 operators
around the world who have Edge and
have launched Edge in 50 countries.
So now we have the network
technologies with huge bandwidths
to deliver mobile content.
So these are growth drivers
for mobile media services.
And then there's 3G,
which is 384 kbps with 2 megabits.
And finally for 3G Evolved, which is HSE.
As he explained,
it's 384 to 15 megabytes per second.
I saw a session yesterday
talking about H264.
That's already been,
or is being introduced in 3GPP and
there's a lot of hype on that and there's
a lot of activity in making that codec
available for the wireless handset.
I think if you have phones that have
not just 64,000 colors available
but millions and millions of colors,
then you have almost
DVD quality in 3G networks.
So, what else do we see?
We also see,
since there's a lot of bandwidth
in the operator networks,
we see that the revenue potential for
mobile data is increasing year by year.
This figure alone is
from Q2 2002 to Q4 2003.
And you see 5% increases
in the operator's revenue,
in the revenue that
they earn off of data.
And this has moved up from roughly
10% to roughly 30%, and that's
quite a big number for them.
Another driver for mobile media is,
as you can see here, is the handsets.
There are a lot of handsets coming out.
Last year, when we were trying to sell,
well, two years ago when we were trying
to sell streaming technologies,
we couldn't find handsets.
So we had to hire application developers,
create clients, put it in iPacks,
connect it to a GPRS phone,
and then stream content.
But that's not the case today.
You have all the big brands,
all the big terminal manufacturers,
Sony Ericsson, Nokia, Sanyo, LG,
all these Japanese terminal
manufacturers,
coming out with phones which
have video call capabilities,
content streaming capabilities,
download capabilities,
and this is driving the
mobile media market as well.
Okay?
So...
Now that we have the handsets,
we have the bandwidth, the next thing is,
of course,
for operators to take both and offer
mobile media services to the customers.
And what we've seen is
there's a... Last year,
it was more marketing-oriented.
A lot of operators said, "Okay,
we have streaming capability,"
but not really fully launched it.
So it was more a marketing campaign
that they have that capability.
We're first, and basically,
we have that service up and running.
But we've seen services
like TV to the mobile,
video on demand,
video telephony services.
I'll just give you a short example.
In Italy and in Sweden,
they have a service
called Big Brother Live.
Has anybody heard about Big Brother here?
No?
Okay, there.
Big Brother is a reality TV show,
and basically,
a group of people stay in one place,
they live there,
and they have cameras everywhere.
What they did in Sweden is they
had six live feeds of content,
plus on-demand content,
and a director's cut, of course.
The director's cut is the most
important aspect of this whole show.
And they were able to generate
roughly 50,000 streams per week,
and these streams were 1 to 2
euro each time you access it.
So it generated a lot
of money for one show.
And this is not the only
thing that's picking up.
We've also seen what we call the
Master Tone Download Service.
That's been picking up
here as well in the US.
But it is very popular in Japan,
especially with KDDI.
They have roughly 7 million
downloads of ringtones per month,
and each ringtone download is $1 each.
So that's $7 million every month.
In the US, Beyonce launched her song
with this Master Tone,
and you could download the Beyonce song.
And what it generated
was 1 million downloads.
So that's roughly $1 million.
So apart from that,
we have video telephony services,
where you can call people,
have video-to-video conferences,
but also you have the
possibility to send numbers,
and with these numbers, stream content.
And what advantages that have, of course,
is I could push a special number to you,
and you would dial up through this
number and access specific content.
So, what else have we seen?
As you see,
all the big operators such as Vodafone,
T-Mobile with their T-Zones,
NT2 Tacoma with their iMode,
they're all looking at packaging services
and integrating that to the handset.
It's all about the personalization,
quickness to access that content.
And in terms of the services that
Ericsson has launched with our operators,
we've done live TV with a lot
of the Hutchinson companies.
For infotainment services,
we've done a lot with Telefonica,
we've done a lot with Amena.
SmartTone, we have a traffic cam service.
I think you were talking about
the picture-based traffic cam.
We have streaming-based
traffic cam services.
We have streaming-based traffic cam
services in Hong Kong where they have
certain streets that you can select and
find out what the traffic situation is.
But of course,
the most mature markets will always be
Japan and South Korea where they have,
specifically for South Korea,
they have roughly 400 different channels.
And they earn roughly 7.5
US dollars per month on top of
their previous ARPU because of these
streaming and download services.
So, there is an opportunity and what we
would like to do is have a special
role in the mobile media space.
And what is that role?
First of all,
we address our customers' needs.
And who is Ericsson's customers?
It's mainly operators: AT&T, Orange,
Vodafone, T-Mobile.
These are our customers and what we
provide to them is end-to-end solutions
for person-to-person services as well
as application-to-person services.
Person-to-person being SMS, MMS,
video call, instant messaging,
as well as voice over IP over wireless.
Apart from that,
we are also trying to bridge
the gap between the media
industry and the mobile industry.
Although AT&T is quite advanced
in having a lot of partners,
a lot of content providers already
having access to the mobile
network and to the mobile clients,
there are still a lot of
operators out in the world that
don't have that relationship,
that don't know what the
content industry is doing.
They don't know what
your competencies are.
They think that, "Oh,
maybe it's the same thing as voice
and I'll just try my luck in this
service." And then they fail.
So, there's a lot of things that
we would like to do for them.
And one of the major things that
we would like to do is aggregate
content and aggregate applications.
And this is quite important for us.
And we have an initiative
called Mobility World,
mainly targeting content developers,
application providers,
and bringing them in to our portfolio,
testing them, verifying it,
and then saying, "Alright,
this is a verified application.
It's a cool service,
and we'd like to take it to market."
And so that's what we do now.
We do a matchmaking
and tell the operator,
"Alright, which one do you want?
Is it the live traffic cam service?
Is it the music download
service called EMU's?" This is
another service we provide.
And then the operator selects from these.
And we sell it as part of our portfolio.
So that's what our role is.
And again, as I said,
we provide person-to-person
and application-to-person.
So what's Ericsson's offering
mainly to our operators?
We cover handsets from Sony Ericsson,
as well as Ericsson's mobile platforms,
which is used by six terminal providers.
We provide access networks,
which is routing, radio-based stations,
wireless networks.
We have core networks,
switching infrastructure,
service networks,
which is basically enablers.
And we have content and applications
as part of our portfolio.
And apart from the hardware,
software infrastructure that we sell,
we provide services to integrate that,
to manage it, and if necessary,
to host it.
Because we've won a lot of outsourcing.
deals when it comes to
supporting wireless networks.
So, we think that we can take the
next step towards the convergence
of mobile media and our strength
in the system side from 2G,
2.5G, and 3G, along with, of course,
Apple, because Apple enables the
whole end-to-end flow.
Without the authoring,
without them supporting 3GPP,
it would be very difficult.
It would segment the market.
So, I think that our competencies
in the wireless network with
Apple's content authoring tools,
the streaming distribution platforms,
when you tie these things together,
you have a very good story and a
very good offering for our operators.
So, I have two more slides,
and basically this one is,
so now we know that
there's an opportunity.
We have a specific role that
we've taken as Ericsson,
and how do we make it successful?
There's two aspects to it.
There's the user aspect,
and then there's the operator aspect.
From the user aspect,
we need to make sure
that it's easy to use,
it's easy to pay,
and it's relevant for the user.
And we have a lot of initiatives
that focus on these three areas.
From the easy-to-use aspect,
we have an initiative called Zero123,
which is no manuals, so zero manuals,
one button to access internet services,
such as, let's say,
a T-zone service or an AT&T service,
and two seconds to access
the content that I want.
And three, maximum of three clicks
to find that content.
So that's Zero123.
And on the side for relevant services,
how we address that, of course,
as I said, is we have Mobility World,
where we collect the best
services around the world,
and we resell this to our operators.
But apart from that, we do consumer lab,
consumer studies.
We ask the users,
"What services do you want?"
Is it a peer-to-peer service?
Is it an email service?
Is it a video call service?
And these are things that we collect.
And after we collect it,
we create packages around that.
And then, easy-to-pay.
This is one of the things that
we really need to consider,
because at this point in time,
a lot of the operators are missing the
growth they should be getting because
of the high prices they put on the data.
I think it's averaging
roughly $20 to $30.
Right.
Per megabyte of data.
So we need to make sure
that the packages are there,
or we have the capability to do
either subscription-based charging,
event-based charging,
or time-based charging.
Finally, we have the operator aspects,
which are platforms, handsets,
applications, and content.
These are things that,
if you tie everything together,
will make mobile media successful.
So, as a summary,
the mobile network offers great
opportunities for both you and
us because we sell systems,
and the more traffic that goes in there,
the more systems we sell.
Ericsson is leading the way,
and we'd like to invite all of you,
if you have bright ideas,
if you have applications that
you'd like to take to market,
we have the Mobility World Forum to allow
you to take your applications to market.
Finally,
the key to success for mobile media is
basically exceeding user expectations.
It's about the user, it's about the user,
and it's always about the user.
Thank you.
Thank you very much, Eugene.
That was a great presentation
and excellent choice of hardware
in that architecture slide.
Coming up next, we have Gabriel Sidhoom
from France Telecom R&D.
Gabriel and France Telecom are
in a unique position in that not
only are they one of the lead
mobile operators in the world,
but they're also one of the
lead broadband operators,
and they actually have a R&D facility
here in the Silicon Valley.
I think Gabriel's role is to be
the liaison between what's going
on in the Silicon Valley and then
spreading that throughout all of
France Telecom's operations worldwide.
I'll hand you the clicker.
All right, thank you.
So a couple of hard acts to follow.
I'll try.
So I wanted to start first by
introducing France Telecom just to set
the context where we're coming from,
where we are today,
the kind of challenges we're facing,
and then move into our take
on the wireless data space.
Okay, so where are we?
We're a global group
present on five continents.
We have about 117 customers worldwide,
117 million customers worldwide.
And we have some global
solutions through strong brands,
and they're listed there.
We're pretty much a leader
in most of our markets,
and we have both multinational
and fixed-line solutions.
So these are our brands.
So we have Orange,
which is our wireless carrier; Wannado,
which is our internet provider;
Equant is a corporate provider,
global corporate provider
in about 220 countries.
Basically, there's an airport.
Equant will be there.
And then France Telecom,
which is the brand you see in France.
And then TP is the Polish carrier,
which is a global carrier.
And then, of course,
we have the same thing
in the United States,
which we own.
So those are our two
major fixed properties.
Now, it's interesting because this,
first of all, if we go back six,
seven years,
we were basically a fixed-line carrier,
doing phone, doing some basic data.
And in the last six years,
through acquisition and growth,
we've become a full-service provider.
And to a certain extent,
this has given us
opportunities to do more.
It's given us opportunities,
caused us some problems, of course,
integration and so on.
But one thing that's
positive in all that,
it has given us the view that
we treat our clients across
all those different contexts.
So for us, it's really important for us,
for the client.
In fact,
we're organized around client context.
The client when he's at the enterprise,
the client when he's at home,
the client when he's in his personal
sphere that is in between those two.
So our approach isn't so much to say,
"Okay, what are we going to give him?
What's our fixed services?
What's our internet service?
What is our wireless service?" But it's
to treat the customer as a whole and
pretty much serve the different contexts
that that client finds himself in.
Market position.
So if we look at in France and UK,
we're a mobile phone leader.
We have about 47 million customers
for our wireless property.
Internet access,
we have about 10 million clients,
and about a quarter of
them have broadband access,
which is probably not
impressive for the US,
but it's a pretty good rate for Europe.
And we're a fixed service
leader in France with about
half of 50 million customers.
So basically half of our
customers are fixed customers
and half are mobile customers.
So we have the three major properties,
and we have a distribution division
that distributes the products,
and that's very important in
order to reach that sort of,
to be able to meet our clients' context.
And then we have a network
organization that provides the
infrastructure to our business units.
So let's talk a little about who
we are in terms of annual results.
So we're about a 47 billion euro company.
These were the revenues for 2003.
Our EBIT about 17 billion and
operating results of 10 billion
and a net income of 3.2 billion.
Now, last year, this is to show the
improvement over last year.
Over last year,
we ran into a debt problem and
have come out of that since.
And a lot of the debt issues
that carriers were facing,
at least in Europe,
were due to some investments that
had to be made for 3G licenses.
So we're very interested in
monetizing these investments we made.
In terms of R&D,
we have worldwide about 3,000
engineers and scientists in R&D units.
It makes us one of the larger R&D units
in terms of a European telecom company.
In 14 sites, last year we had about 600
million euros dedicated to R&D.
We own about 6,000 patents,
including patents for
MPEG-4 and patents for ATM.
And in the last few years,
we've created about 15 spin-off
startups from our R&D units.
So these are engineers and business
people who came up with an idea,
and then it was spun off.
One company you might know is NVIVIO,
who is in the MPEG-4 space.
In terms of our key missions
here in San Francisco,
so one is technology transfer,
the identification of new technologies
and new business models especially,
and then transferring those
back to the business units.
Visioning of new cutting-edge concepts,
that is developing either a mock-up or a
demo or a prototype as the needs require.
Developing IP and inventions,
integrating,
doing an analysis of the impacts
of technology integration
into our network unit.
Development and management
of partnerships,
and then doing a sort of operational
support of our BUs in the US.
We have basically two BUs in the US.
One is Equant, and the other one is a
company called Globcast,
which is a satellite services provider.
Anyways,
I'm not going to go through this,
but basically this is our process in
terms of detection of new technologies,
validations, and implementation,
and then a handoff,
an operational handoff,
and then just keep doing
that over and over again.
What are our kind of
key practices right now?
They're wireless
communications and services,
the digital content management,
web services, identity and messaging,
broadband and network engineering,
emerging technologies, and advanced IT.
One of the sort of the
conclusions that we've come up
with is that as an operator,
we need to move from being a
transport carrier to being an
intermediator for our client.
And so that'll,
as we go through the presentation,
you'll see what that means.
But that means really
being in a position to,
for example,
manage the client's preferences and
their context and their identities.
If so required.
And then,
because I think the future isn't so much
clients looking for information anymore,
I think clients are going
to want information to find
them based on where they are,
based on the context they're in,
and so on.
And I think that
changing those two words,
you know,
instead of clients finding information,
but basically information finding them,
it structures a lot of what an operator,
traditional operator,
needs to do to move on and succeed.
Because, let's face it,
transport as a business
is not the future.
That's a very mature market.
IP, you can become an IP carrier
with a very low cost today,
so they aren't the usual barriers
of entries that we saw 10 years ago.
Okay, so now let's move into a little
of the market positioning in
terms of our wireless business.
So, anyways,
I just wanted to remind you all
of the 47 million customers.
So what's going on in
the market right now?
We're in the 3G launch.
The official launch is slated
for fourth quarter of this year.
Right now, we're bringing up about one
city in France per week.
So it is in test mode,
so we're testing a lot
of the interoperability.
We're testing a lot of the
device management that we can do.
And of course,
looking at the users and making sure that
what we're providing is well integrated
with the other services we're providing.
In terms of 2G, 2.5G, basically,
there is a growing customer
base still and growing RPU,
and so we're bundling voice offers
with some basic data services.
There's significant pressure from
the regulators to open up our
network and provide MVNO services,
which for us, on one hand,
is a source of revenues,
and people like Sprint have
done real good business with
providing these MVNO capabilities.
On the other hand,
it does lower the barriers
to entry into market.
It allows people to come
in with integrated offers,
so it allows a content creator,
somebody who owns content,
to enter the market and be able
to provide a bundle service.
We, as traditional telecom operators,
have really not gotten
into the content business,
almost stayed out of that.
We were very careful not to
close the door on the internet.
certain of the boundaries
in the value chain.
So it provides some issues
we have to deal with,
but on the other hand it's clear for
us that it also means that we just
have to be much better at partnering
with content providers in order
to be able to play in this market.
And then of course as we've all
heard image music games value
added services that we're going
to be bundling with a voice.
So here's what's going
on with the takeoff.
So the launch takeoff mass market.
You see by end of 2004,
we're pretty much,
at least for mobile TV and video
downloads and video MMS and photo MMS,
we'll be achieving sort of the,
we'll be getting past the takeoff
stage and getting into the mass market.
And then in the next year,
having video phone and
broadcast video being launched.
These are,
so in terms of what's going on in music,
these are some of the offers in the
European companies of ringtones.
So, on average,
the price of a ringtone is
about 3.5 euros in Europe.
So that's one thing that probably
is in contrast to the US market
is the fact that people are
paying more for the ringtones.
It's an interesting market
because it shows the value of,
I mean, if you think of it,
you could buy the song for 99 cents
and then edit it out and then,
you know, get the ringtone.
But it shows the value
of having a service,
you know,
that's perceived as being different
than actually buying the song.
So, yeah.
In terms of the music, okay,
so we lost the references here, okay?
I'm sorry.
So,
What you see here is the
responses of customers in Italy,
the blue is UK,
and then the green is Germany.
Responses to...
[Transcript missing]
Most people agreed with downloading
being something that's free,
that people aren't willing to
pay for a service to download.
They might be willing
to pay for the content,
but not for a service that
allows them to do the download.
They also think it's a way,
it's a first step in perhaps
sampling a CD before they buy it.
What we see in the UK,
a big difference in the UK versus
some other European countries
is that UK kind of like,
customers like to pay as they go.
As opposed to having a flat fee,
you know,
an all-you-can-eat type of model.
So that was very interesting
in terms of behavior.
And basically--
Basically,
people were on either side of the
scale as to whether downloading was
something that was useful or appropriate
given their current terminals.
Staying on the music, so this is,
as we see what's happening
in the music market,
one is transmission speed
of the network increases,
and then you get more powerful,
[Transcript missing]
Finally, to look at the games,
we see a huge growth in people
downloading games to their mobile.
We did a survey, and although it was a
significant difference,
it seems a small difference,
but of the people we surveyed,
15% said they were ready.
They saw their mobile phone
as a way of playing games,
as opposed to 11% who
had gaming platforms,
portable gaming platforms.
Now that could be also,
I think that's probably a particular
characteristics of the European market.
So in terms of some of the conclusions,
I think that one, we really see that this
is the way to valorize,
because let's face it,
voice is still the killer application
on any type of wireless network.
And in fact,
3G actually makes voice more efficient.
And it's probably a value
proposition that's more appropriate
in the U.S., where as you upgrade,
you get better quality on your voice.
The second point is very important,
because I think that for us,
it's user-created content that's
going to make this market take off,
and not necessarily just
professionally created content.
At some point, I think we're going to see
the same phenomena we've seen,
where people use a service a lot,
for like the first year,
and then there's a drop-off.
I think what's truly going to
have the stickiness is when
users can integrate their own
content with professional content,
or just create their own
content and be able to use it
and display it on their phone.
Of course,
that also means that there needs to be
some developments in the metadata field.
In fact, being able to capture
in real time metadata.
That's going to be one of the source
of innovations in the years to come,
as will your indexing
strategies of that metadata,
and how you correlate it
with user preferences.
In order to be able to
push the right things,
in order to be able to make sure
you can recommend to the client,
you know, well, if you like this song,
you might like this song,
and you can download it right
now or hear a sample right now.
And finally, I think we're positioned to
provide innovative services.
That sounds probably banal,
but I think the reason I put
that up there because of the,
I think it's going to be important
to all carriers to treat their
clients in a holistic manner,
not as a wireless client sometimes and
sometimes as a different type of client.
They're one client with
different contexts.
In different contexts,
they have access to different devices.
And by understanding
what their contexts are,
you're in a better position
to be able to provide them the
content that they may need.
All right, thank you.
Kevin, thank you very much.